.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii fqu_wc.1
.\"
.TH FQU_WC "1"
.SH NAME
fqu_wc \- Generate word (kmer) counts.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fqu_wc [
.I OPTIONS
.B ]
[
.I file1 
.B ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fqu_wc
generates word counts for the sequences in file1 ...; uses stdin otherwise.
The input files or input stream can be either standard text or gzipped. See the examples below.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-c, --check-initial <num>"
Check at most the first <num> words per record, from 5' [default is all]. Useful
for focusing attention on this restricted portion of the records.
.IP "-h, --help"
Print this help message and exit.
.IP "-m, --min-count <min>"
Do not report word counts smaller than <min> [default: 1].
.IP "-q, --quiet"
Run quietly.
.IP "-s, -w, --word-size <size>"
Use word size <size> [default: 5].
.IP "-V, --verbosity"
Increase the level of reporting, multiples accumulate.
.IP "-v, --version"
Print the version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
 # Count all 10mers in the first 3 words of each sequence
 fqu_wc -w10 -c3 in.fq.gz

 # Count all 20mers, don't report counts less than 1000
 fqu_wc --word-size 20 --min-count 1000 in.fq
.SH BUGS
.B Fqu_wc
performs in-memory word tracking and counting. When working with very large
files or streams, it's possible sufficient memory will not be available on your
platform; in this case
.B fqu_wc
will terminate with a nonzero exit code and an out-of-memory message.
.SH AUTHOR
John A. Crow <crowja_at_gmail_dot_com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fqu_tidy(1)
