.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii fqu_rselect.1
.\"
.TH FQU_RSELECT "1"
.SH NAME
fqu_rselect \- Randomly select records from files and streams in FASTQ format.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fqu_rselect [
.I OPTIONS
.B ]
[
.I file1 
.B ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fqu_rselect
Randomly select records at a specified rate. Results are not repeatable since selection is randomized
with a new seed at each invocation. The selection rate (see --fraction below) is the proportion of
records, on average, that will be reported.
The input files or input stream can be either standard text or gzipped. See the examples below.
The FASTQ standard
allows sequence and quality data to appear on multiple lines, and
.B fqu_rselect
handles these situations correctly, yet
guarantees that, given well-formed input, its output will be in "lazy-FASTQ"
format: exactly four-line records.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-F, --fraction <frac>"
Randomly select <frac> proportion of sequences from the input [default: 1].
For example, 0.2 selects on average 20 percent of the original sequences.
.IP "-h, --help"
Print this help message and exit.
.IP "-q, --quiet"
Run quietly.
.IP "-V, --verbosity"
Increase the level of reporting, multiples accumulate.
.IP "-v, --version"
Print the version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES

 # Single FASTQ file to stdout, default selection rate
 fqu_rselect file1.fq

 # Gzipped FASTQ file to stdout, randomly select 30 percent
 fqu_rselect --fraction 0.30 file2.fq.gz

 # Text stream of FASTQ to stdout, select 70 percent
 cat file3.fq | fqu_rselect -F 0.7
.SH BUGS
Let me know if you find something.
.SH AUTHOR
John A. Crow <crowja_at_gmail_dot_com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fqu_tidy(1)
