.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii fqu_summary.1
.\"
.TH FQU_SUMMARY "1"
.SH NAME
fqu_summary \- Checks if the records in two FASTQ files are pairwise concordant.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fqu_summary [
.I OPTIONS
.B ]
[
.I file1 
.B ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fqu_summary
checks if the records in two FASTQ files are pairwise concordant. This means the identifiers
match identically, sequentially. Returns exit code 0 if concordant, 1 otherwise. Use
--verbose for a printed indication.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-h, --help"
Print this help message and exit.
.IP "-q, --quiet"
Run quietly.
.IP "-V, --verbosity"
Increase the level of reporting, multiples accumulate.
.IP "-v, --version"
Print the version information and exit.
.SH REPORT STATISTICS
Summary statistics are reported in a simple tab-delimited key-value format, designed
to be easily machine-readable. For multiattribute values, for example the counts per
position reported for basecounts_a, individual attributes are likewise tab-delimited.
.IP seqcount
Total number of sequences in the collection.
.IP maxpos
Maximum position observed, a.k.a., length of longest sequence.
.IP qualities_offset
Estimated quality offset (33 or 64).
.IP basecounts_a
Total counts observed for A in each position.
.IP basecounts_c
Total counts observed for C in each position.
.IP basecounts_g
Total counts observed for G in each position.
.IP basecounts_t
Total counts observed for T in each position.
.IP basecounts_u
Total counts observed for U in each position.
.IP basecounts_n
Total counts observed for N in each position.
.IP basecounts_other
Total counts observed for anything besides A, C, G, T, U, N  in each position.
.IP histogram_gc_per_sequence
Counts for each of twenty equally sized cells representing the GC intervals
GC <= 0.05, ..., 0.95 < GC <= 1.0. This is a histogram of per-sequence GC.
.IP qualquants_1
First quartile of quality in each position.
.IP qualquants_2
Second quartile (median) of quality in each position.
.IP qualquants_3
Third quartile of quality in each position.
.SH EXAMPLES
 # Check two gzipped files
 fqu_summary sequence_r1.fastq.gz sequence_r2.fastq.gz
.SH BUGS
Some FASTQ files produced for paired reads suffix the read identifier with /1, /2
to indicate mates, or similar conventions. At present, fqu_summary does not 
recognize this.
.SH AUTHOR
John A. Crow <crowja_at_gmail_dot_com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR fqu_summary(1)

